## NVISO CSIRT ADVISORY 

**Last Update: 2022-12-22** 


## SUMMARY 

In this advisory we provide an overview of the recently reported discoveries around the vulnerability CVE-2022-37958. We will be updating this advisory continuously as more information is released. 
CVE-2022-37958 is a vulnerability in the SPNEGO Extended Negotiation (NEGOEX) Security Mechanism used in Microsoft Windows protocols for authentication. The vulnerability has been addressed by Microsoft in the September 2022 Patch Tuesday updates, being classified by Microsoft as “Important Information Disclosure” with a CVSS score of 7.5. 
On 13th December research results by IBM Security X-Force has been published, which show that the original classification by Microsoft was not entirely correct. The research has shown that this vulnerability can be misused for pre-authentication Remote Code Execution (RCE) in certain Windows application protocols that authenticates. While not providing a complete list, examples provided are Server Message Block (SMB) and Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) as well as Simple Message Transport Protocol (SMTP) and Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) to be vulnerable to this Remote Code Execution attack when SPNEGO authentication negotiation is enabled (for use with Kerberos or Net-NTLM authentication). 

There have not been any reports on the existence of a publicly available exploit or attackers exploiting CVE-2022-37958 for Remote Code Execution in the wild. 
Following the released research, Microsoft updated the corresponding advisory on December 13th and changed the classification of the CVE-2022-37958 vulnerability to “Critical”, assigning a CVE score of 8.1. 

As of today, there are no indications that the patch provided by Microsoft in September 2022 is non-effective. If this patch has not been applied yet, it is strongly recommended to prioritize activities to get this patch applied as soon as possible.   

 

## WHY THIS MATTERS 

With the potentially large list of protocols utilizing SPNEGEO authentication negotiation and some typically internet exposed protocols like SMTP being likely affected, the change in impact and classification of this vulnerability changes the associated risk drastically. Further research pointed out that the vulnerability can be wormable, meaning one exploited system could easily start self-replicating a potential malware to other vulnerable systems, so the impact to unpatched systems could be large-scale and highly automated.  

Given the impact of this vulnerability, it is likely that research to develop own exploitation capabilities has already been started by well-resourced attack groups.   

 

## AFFECTED PRODUCTS 

- Windows 7 

- Windows 8 

- Windows 10 

- Windows 11 

- Windows Server 2008 

- Windows Server 2012 

- Windows Server 2016 

- Windows Server 2019 

- Windows Server 2022 

- Windows RT 8.1 

For a detailed list please see the original Microsoft Advisory listed below. 


## AVAILABLE WORKAROUNDS 

No specific workarounds are published or listed in the Microsoft Advisory, however, the original researchers are recommending to limit the Windows authentication providers to Kerberos or Net-NTLM and remove “Negotiate” as a default provider if a patch cannot be applied. 

## AVAILABLE PATCHES 

Microsoft September 2022 Patch Tuesday contains a fix for CVE-2022-37958 


## CVSS SCORE AND CVE ID 

| CVE ID | Severity | CVSSv3 Score |
|--------|----------|--------------|
|CVE-2022-37958|High|8.1|

 
MITRE: https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-37958 

Microsoft : https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/en-US/vulnerability/CVE-2022-37958 

Microsoft September 2022 Update: https://msrc.microsoft.com/update-guide/releaseNote/2022-Sep 

## RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 

It is advised to identify systems which have not been supplied with the September 2022 Patch. Critical risk vulnerabilities should be fully patched as soon as possible. Priority should be given to internet facing systems. 

Additionally: 

Review the services that are exposed to the internet such as SMB, RDP and IIS, which utilize Windows authentication.  

Perform continuous monitoring of your attack surface for all systems and services that have Windows Authentication enabled (including Microsoft IIS HTTP) 

## MORE INFORMATION 

If you want to learn more, you can find more information in the blog posts linked below: 

https://securityintelligence.com/posts/critical-remote-code-execution-vulnerability-spnego-extended-negotiation-security-mechanism/ 

https://www.rezilion.com/blog/everything-you-need-to-know-about-the-spnego-negoex-cve-2022-37958/ 

https://twitter.com/chompie1337/status/1602757336908660736 

 

## CONTACT AND FEEDBACK 

Our goal is to provide a fast, brief, and actionable advisory on critical cyber security incidents. 

Was this advisory of value to your organization? Was the content clear and concise? Your comments and feedback are very important to us.  

Please do not hesitate to reach out to csirt@nviso.eu     
